README.adoc, before:

= hqtodo
:experimental:
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
ifndef::env-github[]
:icons: font
endif::[]

pass:[<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/arkadianriver/hqtodo/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="build status"/> <!-- <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-work_in_progress-lightgrey.svg" alt="Work in Progress"/> -->]

A li'l web app (page) to display todo items that are created with
the Todo+ extension for VS Code or the Plaintasks package for Sublime Text.
The open items are shown as a
https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/gantt[Mermaid]
Gantt chart.
Tasks always shift with time, starting from now into the future.
It's meant for todos knocked out at a regular story point velocity per day
and labeled in a particular way.
Completed items are displayed underneath, with _Archived_ items available.
An https://apexcharts.com/[ApexFlow] chart shows the cumulative story points
you've knocked out.

pass:[<a href="https://arkadianriver.github.io/hqtodo/" target="_blank"><div align="center"><h3>View the sample</h3><img src="readme.png"/></div></a>]

////
pass:[<p>&nbsp;</p><p align="center"><img src="readme.png" width="600px"/><img src="readme3.png" width="600px"/><img src="readme2.png" width="600px"/></p>]
////

== Running the app

*Prereq:* Currently requires NodeJS v12.

. Copy the `config/default.json` file to `config/production.json`
and add your info to the new file.
Your own TODO file can be anywhere on the file system the app can access,
such as a shared Cloud or Network mounted folder.

. Install and launch:
+
[source, bash]
----
npm install
./run
----

. Point your browser to `http://localhost:3000`.
////
== Deploy

For example with `systemd` on Linux:

[source,bash]
----
vi misc/hqtodo.service # change the absolute paths and user
sudo cp misc/hqtodo.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl start hqtodo
sudo journalctl -f # to verify. Also test in a browser
sudo systemctl enable hqtodo
----
////

== Maintaining your todo file

For the most part, update your TODO file as you normally would.
There are a few conventions to use for the app to work.
link:TODO[See the sample `TODO` file]
as an example.

Everything in your TODO file is ignored except ...

* the todo items between the `Todos:` project and the next _top-level_ project.
* the todo items after `Archive:`

\... where a todo item is a line starting with ☐ or ✔.

=== Active todo items

Syntax:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [@today|@high|@low] <todo description> [@Nh] [@custom ]*
----

* Priority tagging:
** Items prefixed with `@today` are placed in order in the "`In Progress`" section.
** Items with no priority label are listed in order in the "`Backlog`" section.
** Items prefixed with `@high` are colored red.
** Items prefixed with `@low` are not displayed. (This is your Icebox.)
* The optional `@Nh` tag indicates your estimated N hours. No tag gets the default of 2 hours.
* You can provide any number of `@custom` tags for your own custom filtering.
  They're simply displayed with the title.
* When you press kbd:[Super+D] to mark a task with a checkmark and a `@done` tag, it's listed
  in the "`Recently closed todos`" section of the web page.

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ @high Work with so-and-so on such-and-such @4h @prja @prjb
----

=== Interruptions

You can let folks know about vacations and other "`interruptions`"
to your steady velocity.

Syntax:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [Nd starting YYYY-MM-DD]: <title>
----

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [5d starting 2020-05-18]: Whiz-Bang-Boom conference
----

=== Milestones

Milestones have the same form as an interrupt, but with a length
of zero days (`0d`).

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [0d starting 2020-06-15]: Complete Project A @proja
----

Milestones show up in their own section above the others.

=== Referencing a GitHub repo

If you reference a particular issue in your todo text
(for example if you use the linkme VS Code extension),
the Gantt chart will link to the issue from the task bar and todo text.

Edit the config file repo URL to point to your own repo.
As set up now, it has two patterns:

* one pattern that links to the default repo that you specify in the config file `ghihq•4`
* one pattern that links to whatever repo you specify in the todo file itself
`ghi•ragnoroct/linkme•9`

You can of course change the patterns to link to whatever you want.

=== Archived todos

If you archive your done items (e.g. kbd:[Cmd+Shift+A]]), they will be available at
the bottom along with a graph of the cumulative story points you've knocked out
over time. Marvel at your progress!

TIP: Use category tags in your todo items to see them grouped and totaled by category.

Commit message:

include weekends .. .. in interrupt duration

README.adoc, after:

= hqtodo
:experimental:
:toc:
:toc-placement!:
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]
ifndef::env-github[]
:icons: font
endif::[]

pass:[<p align="center"><img src="https://github.com/arkadianriver/hqtodo/workflows/build/badge.svg" alt="build status"/> <!-- <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/stability-work_in_progress-lightgrey.svg" alt="Work in Progress"/> -->]

A li'l web app (page) to display todo items that are created with
the Todo+ extension for VS Code or the Plaintasks package for Sublime Text.
The open items are shown as a
https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/gantt[Mermaid]
Gantt chart.
Tasks always shift with time, starting from now into the future.
It's meant for todos knocked out at a regular story point velocity per day
and labeled in a particular way.
Completed items are displayed underneath, with _Archived_ items available.
An https://apexcharts.com/[ApexFlow] chart shows the cumulative story points
you've knocked out.

pass:[<a href="https://arkadianriver.github.io/hqtodo/" target="_blank"><div align="center"><h3>View the sample</h3><img src="readme.png"/></div></a>]

////
pass:[<p>&nbsp;</p><p align="center"><img src="readme.png" width="600px"/><img src="readme3.png" width="600px"/><img src="readme2.png" width="600px"/></p>]
////

== Running the app

*Prereq:* Currently requires NodeJS v12.

. Copy the `config/default.json` file to `config/production.json`
and add your info to the new file.
Your own TODO file can be anywhere on the file system the app can access,
such as a shared Cloud or Network mounted folder.

. Install and launch:
+
[source, bash]
----
npm install
./run
----

. Point your browser to `http://localhost:3000`.
////
== Deploy

For example with `systemd` on Linux:

[source,bash]
----
vi misc/hqtodo.service # change the absolute paths and user
sudo cp misc/hqtodo.service /etc/systemd/system/
sudo systemctl start hqtodo
sudo journalctl -f # to verify. Also test in a browser
sudo systemctl enable hqtodo
----
////

== Maintaining your todo file

For the most part, update your TODO file as you normally would.
There are a few conventions to use for the app to work.
link:TODO[See the sample `TODO` file]
as an example.

Everything in your TODO file is ignored except ...

* the todo items between the `Todos:` project and the next _top-level_ project.
* the todo items after `Archive:`

\... where a todo item is a line starting with ☐ or ✔.

=== Active todo items

Syntax:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [@today|@high|@low] <todo description> [@Nh] [@custom ]*
----

* Priority tagging:
** Items prefixed with `@today` are placed in order in the "`In Progress`" section.
** Items with no priority label are listed in order in the "`Backlog`" section.
** Items prefixed with `@high` are colored red.
** Items prefixed with `@low` are not displayed. (This is your Icebox.)
* The optional `@Nh` tag indicates your estimated N hours. No tag gets the default of 2 hours.
* You can provide any number of `@custom` tags for your own custom filtering.
  They're simply displayed with the title.
* When you press kbd:[Super+D] to mark a task with a checkmark and a `@done` tag, it's listed
  in the "`Recently closed todos`" section of the web page.

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ @high Work with so-and-so on such-and-such @4h @prja @prjb
----

=== Interruptions

You can let folks know about vacations and other "`interruptions`"
to your steady velocity.
Specify the duration and start date as business days only.

Syntax:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [Nd starting YYYY-MM-DD]: <title>
----

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [5d starting 2020-05-18]: Whiz-Bang-Boom conference
----

=== Milestones

Milestones have the same form as an interrupt, but with a length
of zero days (`0d`).

Example:

[source,bash]
----
☐ [0d starting 2020-06-15]: Complete Project A @proja
----

Milestones show up in their own section above the others.

=== Referencing a GitHub repo

If you reference a particular issue in your todo text
(for example if you use the linkme VS Code extension),
the Gantt chart will link to the issue from the task bar and todo text.

Edit the config file repo URL to point to your own repo.
As set up now, it has two patterns:

* one pattern that links to the default repo that you specify in the config file `ghihq•4`
* one pattern that links to whatever repo you specify in the todo file itself
`ghi•ragnoroct/linkme•9`

You can of course change the patterns to link to whatever you want.

=== Archived todos

If you archive your done items (e.g. kbd:[Cmd+Shift+A]]), they will be available at
the bottom along with a graph of the cumulative story points you've knocked out
over time. Marvel at your progress!

TIP: Use category tags in your todo items to see them grouped and totaled by category.
